Now that I've given you an
overview of the phrase match
spliterator class and its
fields, let's go ahead
and talk about how you
can actually implement it,
and use it in the
context of our search
with sequential streams class.
So we're going to focus first
on the constructor for phrase
match spliterator.
And as you'll see,
it's very powerful.
It's got some
really sophisticated
regular expressions in it.
It's going to take the input
string and the input phrase
we're searching for.
And it creates a regular
expression for that phrase.
And as you can see, that regular
expression is quite a mouthful.
It's going to bracket
it in such a way
to indicate we want
to look at this thing
sort of as a single entity.
We're going to trim
out whitespace.
We're going to replace
all the multiple spaces
with single spaces.
We're also going to do a
bunch of other fancy things.
So it's a very powerful
regular expression.
It's even more elaborate
than I had room to show here.
So I recommend
you go take a look
at the source code, which
comments all this stuff very
heavily.
We then take that regular
expression string,
and we compile it
into a pattern.
And then we go ahead
and have that pattern
be case insensitive, and allow
it to search across line breaks
by using the dot all flag.
We then associate
that input string
that was passed as a
parameter with the matcher.
So now we have a
pattern matcher that's
associated with that
particular input, that
work with Shakespeare.
We assign the input
to the M input field,
and the phrase to
the mPhrase field,
cause we're going to need
that for various things.
And then we go ahead and
define the MminSplitSize.
And what we do here is we just
take the size of the input
and divide it by 2.
And what this means in
practice is basically,
when we do the
parallel spliterator
version of this
program, we're going
to be able to search for phrases
in a given work of Shakespeare
in parallel.
So that's kind of cool.
And we'll talk
about that when we
talk about parallel
spliterators later.
Right now, however, we're
focusing exclusively
on sequential spliterators.
So all we care about is
the try advanced method.
This is called by the
Java streams framework
to attempt to advance the
spliterator by one word match.
This is pretty much
the same as what
we looked at for the
search with stream example.
I'll go through it for
completeness very quickly.
But you can go back and
re-watch that example
if you want a bit more detail.
Basically, it's past
the consumer, action.
And that's used to
pass the results back
to the stream's framework
if there's any matches.
We attempt to use the phrase
matcher to find a match.
If there are no matches, we
bail out, and tell the stream's
framework we're done.
Return false.
If there was a
match, however, we
go ahead and accept the index
where the match occurred
by creating a new result
object by taking the index
and adding the offset.
And the offset is needed for
the parallel streams version
that we'll talk about later.
If we got a match,
we update the action
that'll pass that result back
to the streams framework.
And we return true,
which is an indication
to the streams framework,
hey, keep looking.
There might be
more matches to be
found in this particular
work of Shakespeare.
Then there's also, of
course, the trySplit method.
This is the method that's
used with parallel streams.
And so we'll talk
about this when
we talk about the search
with parallel spliterator
implementation.
It's not used for the
sequential version at all.
It's only used for one of
the parallel versions, which
is the spliterator
version of all this stuff.
So we're going to
ignore that for now.
You're welcome, of
course, to go take a look
and see how it's implemented.
But I'll cover it in
much more detail later.
It's a very, very
complicated implementation,
for reasons that'll
become clearer
when we have more time to
discuss parallel processing
and parallel spliterators.